everybody's got patterns in their life
that they're stuck in they maybe know
about them maybe they don't know about
them but no matter what it causes them
pain and that's what we're calling the
Matrix and so this video is all about
how to get out of the Matrix and so that
means really understanding how it works
learning how to notice when you're in it
and then the third thing is how to get
out of those patterns so what happens is
when we're kids we get told that certain
emotions aren't okay and what that means
is like we get told hey stop being so
excited or boys don't cry or girls don't
get angry or or maybe we get bribed out
of it like we get fed so we don't feel
something or we get told we can't have
temper tantrums or whatever we have
these emotional experiences that are
built to run all the way through us and
get back to regulation and we're told we
can't have them the issue is that we are
like cells and we're trying to get back
to homeostasis if for whatever reason
that emotion doesn't go all the way
through us and we don't get back to
homeostasis we start creating these
patterns in our life over and over again
so that we can feel that emotional
experience and get back to homeostasis
so a simple example of this that you
probably can all recognize is we all
know that person who's been dating the
same person over and over and over and
over again it's like different face
different driver's license but it's the
same emotional abandonment over and over
again or the same abuse or the same
criticism over and over and over again
so how does that work so your little kid
you have this father or mother who has
emotionally abandoned you and of course
as a kid you you can't fully feel that
and so that emotion never gets fully
felt doesn't go all the way through and
if it doesn't go all the way through
then your body needs to recreate a
scenario over and over again to allow
that feeling to happen so my work as a
coach all the time one of the things
that I see is if somebody keeps on
dating somebody who's emotionally
abandoned them when they fully embrace
the abandonment feeling they fall in
love with it and recognize the signal
that it's actually sending them and
recognize how it's protecting them then
they stop dating people who emotionally
abandon them and they stop creating
emotional abandonment in their life so
this kind of pattern can work in a ton
of ways you might find that you keep on
having the same kind of boss you might
find that you keep on having the same
kind of girlfriend you might find that
you keep on getting in fights you might
find out that you keep on getting into
physically uncomfortable positions in
like dangerous situations you might find
that you um keep on being criticized by
everybody you might notice that you keep
on being defensive in a workplace so
there's a lot of ways that this pattern
can over and over again repeat itself
and the solution is always the same
which is fully embracing the emotion
that you're avoiding so now let's move
on to how to notice when you're in The
Matrix when you're in the pattern itself
we often are creating pain in our lives
which we can't even see and so if you
can learn how to see when you're in the
pattern you can get to a lot of freedom
very very quickly so the way you do it
is in three parts one notice any emot
you're avoiding so you go and jump on
your phone what's the emotion you're
avoiding oh you're judging somebody
what's the emotion you're avoiding oh
you're feeling guilt but there's an
emotion underneath it what's the emotion
underneath it what's the emotion you're
avoiding Second Step notice how you
avoid having that feeling so let's say
when I was emotionally abandoned as a
kid the way that I would avoid that
feeling is I get really hard I'd be like
I defend myself that would be one of the
ways that I would you know not get
abandoned and the other way to say is
that I would make people dependent on me
so that I would create an environment
where they needed me enough where I was
not going to be emotionally abandoned so
that would be another way I did it so
you notice how exactly you're avoiding
that emotional state and then the third
part is to notice
how that avoidance actually brings the
emotion to you it doesn't actually get
rid of it or it doesn't actually allow
you to avoid it
so back to my example every time I went
because I wasn't going to be emotionally
abandoned by you it pushed you away so
of course I'm going to get more
emotionally abandoned or every time I
tried to make you dependent then there
was this moment where I felt all alone
like I couldn't depend on anybody
because I was always the helper and I
then I'm like oh my god I've been
abandoned again because I have to do
this all on my own again so now let's
get into how to break through the
pattern and there's obviously some part
of it that you probably already gr which
is to feel the emotion all the way
through so that's one part of it but
another really important part of it is
actually learning to welcome it and this
is a little tricky for a couple reasons
so let's get into it when you start to
really invite it it goes away like the
emotion stops happening and so you're
like oh cool I'm going to do this thing
to make it go away but then you're not
welcoming it anymore and it's like such
a head trip but as soon as you're doing
any of these practices to get rid of the
emotion it it basically becomes the
avoidance that invites it towards you so
the real trick is to have a deep
welcoming of the emotional experience so
a couple things you can do is one you
can find out what the signal is for the
emotional experience so angry might mean
oh I have a boundary that I need to
draw and so wow I I I am I'm allowed to
feel anger because it tells me I need to
draw a boundary or it gives me a sense
of clarity there's a gift in this
emotional experience and so I can
actually look forward to it I can
welcome it oh I'm anxious that might
mean that I'm not saying my whole truth
huh I'm like I'm holding something in
and since I'm I don't feel safe that I
can be myself of course I have anxiety
so that tells me oh here's a place where
I I need to speak my truth so one is to
find the signal throughout all the noise
of an
emotion the second is to really learn
how intelligent it is when you really
Express anger for a while you'll notice
you get to clarity when you really
Express anxiety for a while you notice
that the anxiety dissipates and and it
brings a new conclusion so to actually
express it without any judgment without
telling yourself you shouldn't express
it really allows you to see things from
A New Perspective all the time I see
people having a hard time making a
decision they express their feeling and
then boom that decision gets made much
much more easily the third is to notice
that when you're actually curious about
it it's all just sensation and can all
be kind of cool and pleasurable anger
can be very invigorating anxiety can be
very alive it can it turn into like an
excitement sadness and joy they're
really close to each other we notice we
will cry over a Sunset and we'll cry
over the loss of say our pet and there's
like there's something really close to
the feeling of those two things it
creates a gratitude in the system so if
we stop resisting the emotional
experience we learn that there's
actually quite a bit of pleasure in them
and that we can Savor them and it makes
no sense to our head but our body will
learn it right away in fact most of the
stuff that you feel that's uncomfortable
and emotional experiences the resistance
to it not the thing itself so for
instance let's say you need to go to the
bathroom and you're not going to the
bathroom it's not going to the bathroom
that's uncomfortable it's resisting it
that's uncomfortable it's exactly the
same way with an emotion it's resisting
it that's actually the discomfort
another way to look at it is that the
Matrix itself is energized by your
resistance
istance and as soon as you become
undefended to your own emotional
experience you can fall in love with it
then you get energized instead of the
Matrix getting energized and the
greatest phrase that I've ever heard
around this is I just love this one and
it is in a war with yourself you always
lose in a war with your emotions you
always lose the thing that makes this
hard is that a lot of people are scared
that they will lose control if they
allow their emotional experiences so
usually if I allow my myself to get
angry I'll destroy everything I love if
I allow myself to be sad I will be sad
forever if I allow myself to be scared I
won't be able to do
anything but it doesn't work that way at
all as it turns out if you allow
yourself to be sad if you allow a good
cry you feel better at the end of it
it's when you resist sadness that
depression starts happening when you
allow yourself to feel anger not at
anybody not in a way that creates shame
not in a way that destroys anything but
just by yourself getting being angry you
get to Clarity you get to actually the
Creative Energy behind anger because
there's nothing that we get angry about
that we don't care for deeply we
wouldn't get angry otherwise and same
thing if you allow yourself to feel the
fear completely you courage just falls
out of that excitement just falls out of
that so if you want to do something
really practical around this here's an
experiment that you can try out every
day at the end of the day or at the
beginning of the day you notice an
emotion that you've been avoiding and
you bring it into the emotional inquiry
you just do that every day for two weeks
every day for two weeks and notice how
much your life changes all right thanks
for coming we appreciate you watching
the video if you liked it and you want
more hit subscribe and like and leave
any comments in the bottom of any kind
of content that you want us to
produce